# ROSA

Resources for Open Science in Astronomy (ROSA) aims to compile and tailor open science best practices from around the web into a kit for astronomers to work openly from proposal to publication. ROSA will be written for use by all research levels but its mission is to supply a single resource to senior researchers to best equip them to encourage early career scientists to practice open access/data/source - in order to successfully mentor the next generation of open science practitioners we also need to target those who advise them.

Like other scientific fields, the astronomy community can be a closed and stressful environment. Although astronomy has been successful in sharing publications on the open arXiv, data are often hoarded and methods vaguely described, making it difficult to reproduce results and frustrating to build on the research of others. The reasons for this are diverse but one prominent issue is a lack of understanding in the community about HOW to work in an open way. ROSA aims to help solve this problem.

This project aims to result in two products: a general open science resource kit that can be adapted to any field, and one specifically tailored for astronomy: ROSA. The project will be developed on GitHub so that anyone can contribute resources and tutorials from around the web and it will undergo curation and tailoring to create ROSA. The end product aims to be a well-documented guide on WHY you should research openly and WHAT tools are available around the web to enable this.

This project will rely on contributions from the wider community in order to benefit from more diversity and range in input. It will also continuously evolve over time as people use it and more open science tools become available. Not only will the general kit grow over time, but it can also be adapted to suit the needs of different research fields and audiences. 
